# Describe the benefits of using cloud services

Upon completion of this module, you will be able to:

- Describe the benefits of high availability and scalability in the cloud.
- Describe the benefits of reliability and predictability in the cloud.
- Describe the benefits of security and governance in the cloud.
- Describe the benefits of manageability in the cloud.

---
---
## **Table of contents**


- [**Describe the benefits of high availability and scalability in the cloud**](#describe-the-benefits-of-high-availability-and-scalability-in-the-cloud)
  - [High availability](#high-availability)
  - [Scalability](#scalability)
- [**Describe the benefits of reliability and predictability in the cloud**](#describe-the-benefits-of-reliability-and-predictability-in-the-cloud)
  - [Reliability](#reliability)
  - [Predictability](#predictability)
- [**Describe the benefits of security and governance in the cloud**](#describe-the-benefits-of-security-and-governance-in-the-cloud)
- [**Describe the benefits of manageability in the cloud**](#describe-the-benefits-of-manageability-in-the-cloud)
  - [Management of the cloud](#management-of-the-cloud)
  - [Management in the cloud](#management-in-the-cloud)

## **Describe the benefits of high availability and scalability in the cloud**

([video](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/videoplayer/embed/RWEA4z?postJsllMsg=true))

When building or deploying a cloud application, two of the biggest considerations are uptime (or **availability**) and the ability to handle demand (or **scalability**).

### High availability

High availability focuses on ensuring maximum availability, regardless of disruptions or events that may occur.

Services in Azure have various availability/uptime, ranging to 99% to 99,9%

### Scalability

Scalability refers to the ability to adjust resources to meet demand. Scaling generally comes in two varieties: vertical and horizontal. Vertical scaling is focused on increasing or decreasing the capabilities of resources. Horizontal scaling is adding or subtracting the number of resources.


## **Describe the benefits of reliability and predictability in the cloud**

**Reliability** and **predictability** are two crucial cloud benefits that help you develop solutions with confidence.

### Reliability

Reliability is the ability of a system to recover from failures and continue to function. 

he cloud, by virtue of its decentralized design, naturally supports a reliable and resilient infrastructure. With a decentralized design, the cloud enables you to have resources deployed in regions around the world.

### Predictability

Predictability in the cloud lets you move forward with confidence. Predictability can be focused on performance predictability or cost predictability.

**Performance**

Performance predictability focuses on predicting the resources needed to deliver a positive experiencefor your costumers.

**Cost**

Cost predictability is focused on predicting or forecasting the cost of the cloud spend. With the cloud, you can track your resource use in real time, monitor resources to ensure that you’re using them in the most efficient way, and apply data analytics to find patterns and trends that help better plan resource deployments.

## **Describe the benefits of security and governance in the cloud**

Cloud features support governance and complience. Things like set templates help ensure that all your deployed resources meet corporate standards and government regulatory requirements.

On the security side, you can finde a cloud solution taht matches your security needs.

## **Describe the benefits of manageability in the cloud**

There are two types of manageability for cloud computing:

### Management of the cloud

Management of the cloud speaks to managing your cloud resources. IN the cloud, you can:

- Automatically scale resource deployment based on need.
- Deploy resources based in a preconfigured template, removing the need for manual configuration.
- Monitor the health of resources and automatically replace failing resources
- Receive automatic alerts based in configured metrics, so you're aware of performance in real time

### Management in the cloud

Management in the cloud speaks to how you are able to manage your cloud environment and resources. you can manage these:

- through a web portal
- Using a command line interface
- Using APIs
- Using PowerShell










