# Describe cloud service types

Upon completion of this module, you will be able to:


- Describe infrastructure as a service (IaaS).
- Describe platform as a service (PaaS).
- Describe software as a service (SaaS).
- Identify appropriate use cases for each cloud service (IaaS, PaaS, SaaS).


---
---
## **Table of contents**



- [**Infrastructure as a Service**](#infrastructure-as-a-service)
  - [Scenarios](#scenarios)
- [**Platform as a Service**](#platform-as-a-service)
  - [Scenarios](#scenarios)
- [**Software as a Service**](#software-as-a-service)
  - [Scenarios](#scenarios)

## **Infrastructure as a Service**

***Infrastructure as a Service*** (IaaS) model, the cloud provider is responsible for maintaining the hardware, network connectivity (to the internet) and physical security.

According to the Shared responsibility model. in Iaas, the cloud provider is responsible for maintaining the physical infra and its access to the internet. On the other hand, you are responsible for installation and configuration, patching and updates, and security.

### Scenarios

Some common scenarios where IaaS might make sense include:

- Lift-and-shift migration: You’re standing up cloud resources similar to your on-prem datacenter, and then simply moving the things running on-prem to running on the IaaS infrastructure.
- Testing and development: You have established configurations for development and test environments that you need to rapidly replicate. You can stand up or shut down the different environments rapidly with an IaaS structure, while maintaining complete control.

## **Platform as a Service**

***Platform as a Service*** (PaaS) is a middle ground between renting space in a datacenter (infrastructure as a service) and paying for a complete and deployed solution (software as a service)

According to the Shared responsibility model. in PaaS, The cloud provider is responsible for maintaing the physical infra and its access to the internet, just like IaaS, and also maintain the operating systems, databases, and development tools.

### Scenarios

Some common scenarios where PaaS might make sense include:

- Development framework: PaaS provides a framework that developers can build upon to develop or customize cloud-based applications. Similar to the way you create an Excel macro, PaaS lets developers create applications using built-in software components. Cloud features such as scalability, high-availability, and multi-tenant capability are included, reducing the amount of coding that developers must do.
- Analytics or business intelligence: Tools provided as a service with PaaS allow organizations to analyze and mine their data, finding insights and patterns and predicting outcomes to improve forecasting, product design decisions, investment returns, and other business decisions.

## **Software as a Service**

Software as a Service (SaaS) is the most complete cloud service model from a product perspective. Email, financial software, messaging applications, and connectivity software are all common examples of a SaaS implementation.

According to the Shared responsibility model. in SaaS, ou’re responsible for the data that you put into the system, the devices that you allow to connect to the system, and the users that have access. Nearly everything else falls to the cloud provider.

### Scenarios

Some common scenarios for SaaS are:

- Email and messaging
- Business productivity applications
- Finance and expense tracking









